# Hello world program 🌍️

We are going to be writing a [Hello world](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%22Hello,_World!%22_program) program with [Rust programming language](https://www.rust-lang.org/). You don't need to be an expert in Rust to follow along. Let's get started!

## Instruction

Let's start by writing the starting point of our program. Every interaction with the program is going to start from this function:

```rs
pub fn process_instruction(
    program_id: &Pubkey,
    accounts: &[AccountInfo],
    instruction_data: &[u8],
) -> ProgramResult {
    Ok(())
}
```

`process_instruction` takes 3 arguments:

1. `program_id`: It is the [public key](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Public-key_cryptography) of our program.
2. `accounts`: We need to specify every account that our program interacts with in the instruction. We won't specify any accounts in this tutorial because our simple Hello world program only logs a message on-chain and doesn't interact with any account.
3. `instruction_data`: Instruction data(bytes). For our purposes, this will be empty because we don't need to pass in any data to the program.

We are returning `Ok(())` to indicate that the program call completed successfully.

## Log "Hello, World!"

In Rust, we usually log messages with `println!` macro but in Solana, we use `msg!` macro.
Inside the `process_instruction` function body, you can type `msg` and press Enter to use Playground snippet for logging messages.
You can log whatever you want but for the purpose of the tutorial let's log `Hello, World!`:

```rs
msg!("Hello, World!");
```

> ⚠️ Return value of the instruction, `Ok(())`, should always be at the end of the function body.

## Entrypoint

In order to interact with our on-chain program, we need to define the program entrypoint.
Luckily, we have a very useful macro called `entrypoint!` inside `solana_program` crate for this purpose.

Let's add `entrypoint!` at the top of the file(below the imports):

```rs
entrypoint!(process_instruction);
```

That's it! Next, we build the program.
