# Instructions

1. In the terminal below type `build` to the project.
2. Connect your wallet from bottom left.
3. Save your keypair.
4. Get some SOL: `solana airdrop 2` (If you get this error:
   Process error: Client error: "Too many requests for a specific RPC call, contact your app developer or support@rpcpool.com."
   then pick another RPC Endpoint on the bottom left the little gear symbol. `devnet-alchemy` works well for me).
5. Run `solana airdrop 2` until you have 6 SOL.
6. You can see your balance with `solana balance`. You can also see your balance in the bottom bar.
7. Type `deploy` This will now deploy your game to devnet. This will take a while.
8. Write `run` in the terminal: This runs the TypeScript code in client.ts.
   It will first call initialize on the Anchor program to initialize the level1 account.
   For that it uses a PDA (Program derived address) with the seed Level1.
   So the account will be owned by the program.
   Then the client will call MoveRight on the Anchor program.
   MoveRight will increase the player position in the PDA Account by one and then print the current player position.
9. If you `run` the client code again the player position will move to 2.
10. If you `run` the client code a third time the player position will be increased to 3 and you reach the end of leve 1. \o/
11. Click your address on bottom bar to see your account on the explorer.
12. Enjoy looking at the logs from the transactions and see your little character starting his journey.
13. You can also replace `walkRight` with `walkLeft` in the client to walk back to the start.
14. Think of what else you could do with this and let me know if you can come up with some game ideas.

.......\o/

Here is a video walkthrough of me progamming the example if you want to have more details:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_vQ3bSs3svs&ab_channel=SolPlay

### Some useful links:

- [Anchor Javascript Reference](https://docs.solana.com/developing/clients/javascript-reference)
- [Anchor PDAs](https://book.anchor-lang.com/anchor_in_depth/PDAs.html)
- [Cookbook PDAs](https://solanacookbook.com/core-concepts/pdas.html#generating-pdas)
