# Fetching Expense Entries

Now you may be wondering, how do I fetch all expense entries owned by a particular user?

Anchor provides us .all() and .fetch() methods. One returns all expense accounts, other returns an individual fetch account through its public key. But what about adding some filtering to fetch accounts by some specific attribute, like the owner?

Turns out, it's super easy!
Have a look into this snippet:

```ts
const expenses = await pg.program.account.expenseAccount.all([
  {
    memcmp: {
      offset: 8 + 8,
      bytes: pg.wallet.publicKey.toBase58(),
    },
  },
]);
```

We're using `all` method from Anchor in our TypeScript client. But look at the array there.

Under the hood, `all` method is calling Solana JSON RPC's `getProgramAccounts` method. You can check out [Solana CookBook's Guide](https://solanacookbook.com/guides/get-program-accounts.html#facts) to understand it in more depth!

But for now, to keep it simple. The `memcmp` filter, standing for memory comparison helps us comparing specific value in bytes on its position.

Remember [Space Reference](https://book.anchor-lang.com/anchor_references/space.html) which we talked about in 2nd page? We had our Expense Account defined like this:

```rs
#[account(
    init,
    payer = authority,
    space = 8 + 8 + 32 + (4 + 12) + 8 + 1,
    seeds = [b"expense", authority.key().as_ref(), id.to_le_bytes().as_ref()],
    bump
)]
```

The first `8` byte space is for discriminator, we have to add it every time. Then, we have another `8` bytes for `id`, and then, we have `32` bytes for owner public key. That is what we are aiming at. So in order to get the value owner, which is after discriminator and id, we need to shift bytes by 8 + 8. That is the **offset** you see in the TypeScript code snippet.

We just need to define the correct offset for the byte data we are looking at, and then add the actual byte data itself, which is the user's public key in this case.

And that is it! It's that easy to fetch particular accounts through filters. If we wanted to get let's say, all expense entries of amount 100, we would just need to add 8 + 8 + (4 + 12) offset and enter our amount in bytes!

---

### And that is it! That's the end of this tutorial. You just learned some basic but very imporant concept of Solana and Anchor.

_Once again, if you want to get the full dApp code with a simple frontend. Checkout this [Workshop Repository](https://github.com/GitBolt/expense-tracker-workshop)_
