# Overview

The Boss Battle game is a simple Solana program build using the Anchor framework where players can spawn and attack an enemy boss while dealing random damage. The goal of this game is to demonstrate how to use a XORShift random number generator (RNG) to determine the damage dealt during an attack, utilizing the current slot as a source of pseudo-randomness.

The program consists of 2 instructions:

- `respawn` - Initializes a new enemy boss account if it does not already exist and set the health to 1000
- `attack` - Calculates random damage using XORShift and deducts it from the enemy boss's health

[XORShift](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xorshift) is a class of fast, lightweight, and deterministic RNG algorithms that work by iteratively applying the XOR operation and bit shifts to generate pseudo-random numbers.

The following implementation is used in the program:

```rust
pub fn xorshift64(seed: u64) -> u64 {
    let mut x = seed;
    x ^= x << 13;
    x ^= x >> 7;
    x ^= x << 17;
    x
}
```

For an on-chain game, XORShift is suitable for basic game mechanics where random numbers have no significant value and there's no incentive for manipulation. However, it is important to note that different random number implementations offer distinct statistical heuristics. This means that some numbers may appear more frequently than others in certain cases.

For high-stakes scenarios, like gambling DApps, cryptographically secure random numbers are crucial. In such cases, consider using [Switchboard VRF](https://docs.switchboard.xyz/randomness). Oracle-based solutions offer better security but may be costly for frequent use, so choose the appropriate method for your application. For more information on alternative approaches to randomness, refer to this [DaoPlays article](https://www.daoplays.org/blog/random_numbers).
