# Faucet Tutorial

Today we're going to build a token faucet. If you're unfamiliar with the concept of a token faucet try [this one](https://faucet.solana.com/) or [this one](https://solfaucet.com) to get some dev-net SOL. Faucets have a [long history](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_bitcoin#Bitcoin_faucets) in crypto going back to the early years of Bitcoin. The first faucet originally gave out five bitcoins per person. Today faucets are most commonly used to issue valueless tokens such as those used on testnets.

Our faucet will also dispense valueless tokens, the exact number of which will depend on the current price of Bitcoin which our program will fetch from a price oracle. An oracle is simply a way for us to reference off-chain data, which in this case is the price of Bitcoin. To do this we will make use of Seahorse's built-in integration with oracle provider Pyth. To take advantage of this integration we will need to add an extra import at the top of our Seahorse program `from seahorse.pyth import *`.

```py
from seahorse.prelude import *
from seahorse.pyth import *

declare_id('')
```

Our faucet will be represented as an `Account` class with four fields -- `bump` which stores the bump used to generate the account (more on bumps later), `owner` the public key of the account creator, `mint` the public key of the token mint account for the token that the faucet will dispense (more on mint accounts later) and `last_withdraw` a timestamp of the last faucet withdrawal time which we will use as a crude way to rate limit access to the faucet.

```py
class BitcornFaucet(Account):
  bump: u8
  owner: Pubkey
  mint: Pubkey
  last_withdraw: i64
```
