# Running

If you ‘run‘ the program three things will happen.

1. First we find two progamm adresses. One for the game data of level 1 and then one
   to deposit sol in that we can then give out to the player when they reach the end of the level.
2. Then we call initialize on our program which will initialize these accounts on chain.
   The logged in wallet will pay for these accounts.
3. Then we call resetLevelAndSpawnChest, this will reset the player position to 0 and fill the chest vault account with 0.1 sol. For that we use a cross plattform invocation (CPI). So we call the systemprogramm:transfer to transfer the sol to the chestVault account.
4. In a loop we call 3 times moveRight. This will move the character to the right (increase the play position u8). When the player reaches position 3 the reward of the chest account will be transfered to him. Here we can not use a CPI, because the chestVault is not owned by the system program. So we directly access the lamport balance of both accounts and increase the player accounts lamports and decrease the lamportas from the chest_vault.
5. You played through the game, gratulations.

Where to go from here?

Being able to give rewards to players gives all kind of possibilities.
You could for example organize a race, or an adventure game where people need to put in certain numbers to solve riddles. Or you could add some chances and make a gambling game or add a second dimension to the level and add more movement options and spawn multiple chests.
You could also add a transaction fee for moving which fills up the chests.
Looking forward to see what you are building!

.......\o/💎

Here is a video walkthrough of me progamming the example if you want to have more details:

- [Video Walk Through coming soon]

### Some useful links:

- [Anchor Javascript Reference](https://docs.solana.com/developing/clients/javascript-reference)
- [Anchor PDAs](https://book.anchor-lang.com/anchor_in_depth/PDAs.html)
- [Cookbook PDAs](https://solanacookbook.com/core-concepts/pdas.html#generating-pdas)
