## Client

Now that our program is on-chain, we can interact with our program using [@solana/web3.js](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@solana/web3.js) library.

## Playground globals

In order to interact with our on-chain program, we must create a transaction and send it to the Solana cluster via an RPC endpoint.

In playground, we already have useful information to interact with our program globally defined in `pg` namespace.
For example, we can log our program id like this:

```ts
console.log(pg.PROGRAM_ID.toString());
```

> 🔍️ You can call your program outside of playground too, the only difference is you would need to create connection, wallet and program id yourself.

You can click **Run** button on the left panel or type `run` inside the terminal to run this script and see your program id.

## Latest blockhash

In the latest version of `@solana/web3.js` we need to provide latest blockhash information when creating a transaction. We can easily get it like this:

```ts
// Get latest blockhash info
const blockhashInfo = await pg.connection.getLatestBlockhash();
```

## Transaction

Let's create a transaction to interact with our on-chain program:

```ts
// Create transaction
const tx = new web3.Transaction({
  ...blockhashInfo,
});
```

## Instruction

Now that we have a transaction, let's add our hello world instruction:

```ts
// Add our hello world program instruction
tx.add(
  new web3.TransactionInstruction({
    programId: pg.PROGRAM_ID,
    keys: [],
    data: Buffer.from([]),
  })
);
```

If you noticed, the parameters that we entered are the same from our program in `lib.rs`.

1. `programId`: its our hello world program id
2. `keys`: its `accounts` parameter in our program instruction. Since this program doesn't make use of any of the accounts, we leave it empty.
3. `data`: its `instruction_data` paramater in our program instruction. Again, since we are not using any data on-chain, we don't need to specify it here. We put an empty buffer with `Buffer.from([])`.

## Sign transaction

Our transaction is ready, we just need to sign it:

```ts
// Sign transaction
tx.sign(pg.wallet.keypair);
```

## Send transaction

We can now send the signed transaction to the Solana cluster:

```ts
// Send the transaction to the Solana cluster
const txHash = await pg.connection.sendRawTransaction(tx.serialize());
console.log(txHash);
```

## Run client

Click **Run** button on the left panel or type `run` to run the script.

If successful, you should see the transaction hash getting logged in the terminal.

## Get transaction logs

There are many ways to get a transaction's logs. In this tutorial we are going to be using Solana CLI inside playground to fetch the transaction information.

Copy the transaction hash by selecting the transaction hash inside the terminal(double-clicking works) and either right click -> Copy or use `CTRL+SHIFT+C`(`CMD+SHIFT+C` on macOS) keybind.

Now type:

```sh
solana confirm -v <PASTE_TRANSACTION_HASH_HERE>
```

> 🔍️ You can paste the transaction hash by right click -> Paste or use `CTRL+SHIFT+V`(`CMD+SHIFT+V` on macOS) keybind.

You should now see _Hello, World!_ under **Log Messages** section.

🎉️ Congratulations!
